Chapter VI: Anti-Corruption and Transparency Framework

Article 1: Humans' Integrity Chamber
Section 1.1 - Human Society Integrity Chamber (HSIC): A rotating, elected o
r selected panel reviewing high-level decisions. Members shall serve limite
d terms with comprehensive protection and resources.

Article 2: Radical Transparency
Section 2.1 - Radical Transparency: Mandatory publication of all government
 transactions. Contracts, budgets, incomes, expenditures. If a transaction 
has national security implications, the amount should still be published un
der a pseudo name given to the item under consideration. Publishing ALL gov
ernment meeting minutes, negotiations and lobbying interactions shall be re
quired. Public Ledger Systems using immutable cryptographic logs shall trac
k finances, decision logic, asset declarations, and ALL items mentioned in 
this section.

Article 3: Whistleblower Protection
Section 3.1 - Whistleblower Protection: Anonymous reporting channels with l
egal immunity and financial rewards shall be established. Whistleblowers sh
all receive comprehensive protection and support.

Article 4: Media and Investigative Support
Section 4.1 - Media and Investigative Support: Global Investigative Journal
ism Trust with firewalled funding and rotating editorial oversight by civil
 society boards shall be established. Incentives for cross-border investiga
tive collaborations shall be provided.

Article 5: AI Oversight and Ethics
Section 5.1 - AI Oversight and Ethics: Open-source, audit-able algorithms w
ith independent AI Ethics Ombudsman shall govern automated systems. Algorit
hmic decisions shall be explainable and contestable.

Article 6: Free Press and Information Integrity
Section 6.1 - Free Press: The establishment of free press is an inalienable
 right. Free press is defined by a no-intervention policy. Neither encourag
ement nor hindrance of the flow of information is permitted. All informatio
n shall be tagged at minimum with date, source, and publisher. Machine-gene
rated content shall be marked as such.

Section 6.2 - Dealing with False Information: If information is deemed fals
e, the following process shall be applied based on the nature of the falseh
ood: (a) lack of information availability - mandatory correction is issued;
 (b) misleading information - the source is identified and correction is is
sued; (c) ambiguity - harm is examined and correction issued; (d) coinciden
tal - harm is examined and correction issued; (e) purposeful lie - harm is 
examined and legal action is explored.

Section 6.3 - Universal Access: Free press and press in general is granted 
access to all possible events with no restrictions, except the following ca
ses: (a) Immediate danger or harm to the members of press or anyone involve
d; (b) Privacy considerations (underage protections); (c) Legal considerati
ons; (d) Case of national security violation. With access to events where a
 limited number of press can be accommodated, the press as a unified entity
 should decide on access and sharing.
